# AZ-104-notes
AZ-104: Microsoft Azure Administrator
Azure terms simplified

How I would explain Azure terminology to my students

## Azure Active Directory

Tenant - Organisation domain name. Your Organisation is unlikely to give you global administrator rights. So you have to create a new tenant to make yourself a global admin.

Account - Organisation employee, program with a username, password and MFA. Each account must have at least one role.

Subscription - How you are going to pay for using Azure resources. Eg. A local TV network offers a family subscription that has channel 101, 102 and 103. The channels are your resources.

Primary domain name - Azure gives a primary domain name based on the Tenant. You can customise it so that your employees can have email account that looks like <user@organisation.com>

Domain Controller - A server that authenticates and authorises. Similar to a security guard at the entrance of a building.

Single Sign On (SSO) - Sign in one time to access all the applications by the same organisation. Eg. Sign in to MS365 once to access WORD, PPT and EXCEL.

Administrative / Organisation Unit - A subset of the organisation, usually based on different departments or different locations. The main use is to limit the number of users that the Administrator can control.

SKU (stock keeping unit) - A product that Microsoft sells. Eg. VM and Storage.

B2B - Business to Business. Used for inviting other Azure organisation users to own organisation.

B2C - Business to Consumer. Used for inviting user through their social media account (eg. facebook and linkedin) to own organisation.

API - Application Programming Interface. A middleman for users to access resources (data) or web services.

Instance - A running application or VM.

IAM - Identity and access management (IAM) Secure access to your resources with Azure identity and access management solutions. Protect your applications and data at the front gate with Azure identity and access management solutions. Defend against malicious login attempts and safeguard credentials with risk-based access controls, identity protection tools, and strong authentication options—without disrupting productivity.


## Storage Account

Endpoint - Consists of an IP and a port. Public endpoint for remote access: Public endpoint for a managed instance enables data access to your managed instance from outside the virtual network. Private endpoint for network access: By enabling a private endpoint, you are bringing the service into your virtual network.

IAM - Identity Access Management. Assigns roles to user aka RBAC - Role Based Access Control

Blobs - Local SSD to store files that are NOT to be shared

Files - One Drive to store files that can be shared

Tables - Stores non-relational structured data (also known as structured NoSQL data)

Queues - For storing large numbers of messages.

Azure File Sync - Similar to Google Drive on the Cloud. You need to configure a storage account as a sync group so that you can sync it to registered servers.

Azure File Sync Agent - Similar to an application to install Google Drive on your laptop. Therefore all your devices need the Agent so that you can set them up as registered servers to sync with the sync group on Azure.

Registered servers - Similar to Google Drive on your laptop or mobile

## Networking

Gateway - It is located at the boundary of a network and manages all data that inflows or outflows from that network.

https://ipwithease.com/snat-vs-dnat/

SNAT (Source Network Address Translation) - It is typically used when an internal/private host needs to initiate a connection to an external/public host. The device performing NAT changes the private IP address of the source host to public IP address.

DNAT - (Destination Network Address Translation) - The typical usage of this is to redirect incoming packets with a destination of a public address/port to a private IP address/port inside your network.

## Ports

80 - http for web

443 - https for web

445 - SMB protocol to share files

3389 - Remote Desktop protocol (RDP)

## Others

Protocol - a language where devices talk to one another on how things are going to be done
